---
slug: ""
title: Foreword from the Translator
volume: 0
chapter: -51
date: 2024-11-01T16:21:00
hideComments: false
---
I have been a fan of the time-travel genre for a while, especially where the central premise is where modern scientific and industrial ideas are transplanted into a non-modern world. This could be some time into our past (like in Eric Flint’s _1632_ or here in _LGQM_), or it could be into an entirely different world (Thorensen’s _Destiny’s Crucible_). Parallel to this are novels that feature a host world with fantastical or magical elements (Er Mu’s _Release that Witch_).

The idea isn’t particularly new in the west. Most famously perhaps it is satirised at the end of the 19th century by Mark Twain in _A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_, but there are many, many other works hence. Authors such as Turtledove, Stirling, Stross, Weber; the list goes on and on. This idea has been shaken and stirred and spilled across several genres such as alternate history, sci-fi, and fantasy. 

The english novel that comes closest to _Lingao_ is, in my opinion, Eric Flint’s _1632_, i.e. the _Ring of Fire_ universe. It parallels _Morning Star_ in execution—a collaboration between several contributors—and also spirit, with the transposition of a group of people from our modern day world into the 17th century (in fact, almost down the very same year; 1628 vs 1632\!). 

Let us talk about the novel itself. _Illumine Lingao_, also known as _Lin Gao Qi Ming_ or _Morning Star of Lingao_ was originally published online on Qidian (a website in China that hosts serialised novels, known as web novels) in 2009 by Xiao Feng under the pen name Boaster (吹牛者, Chui Niu Zhe). He himself plays the role of one of the main characters in Volume 1 under the name Xiao Zishan. The premise of the novel was born from a discussion in 2006 on an online bulletin board, and the novel itself was written with ideas contributed from a few hundred people in the community. The first volume was published in print in 2017, and the second in 2022\. This translation will follow the serialised rather than the print version due to the availability of source materials. 

This novel is fairly unique in that it reads less like your traditional novel and more like a dramatic add-on of a _real history_. It stands out for its technical details, realistic grounding and encyclopaedic exploration of time travel and its consequences. It is a real tour de force of the nation-building/industrial fantasy/time travel genre. I hope that these distinct features emerge in my interpretation, and that the reader is pleasantly entertained by these traits as much as I. However, there will doubtless be times where my scant knowledge of Chinese will limit the fidelity of my translation. For this I implore forgiveness. If the problem is particularly egregious I will endeavour to make note of it, but my focus is above all to spin a coherent retelling for an English audience. 

There will be two forms in which I personally interject: either footnotes wherever I feel that the reader might be missing out on background or textual information, or translational comments (demarked TN) always at the end of chapters. However, don’t feel obliged: footnotes can always be skipped\! Everything that isn’t a footnote or tagged with \[TN\] are words of the original author. Looking back on the first volume, I feel that I probably have made too many interjections. I apologise in advance if this detracts from the reading experience. There is also an entire [wiki](https://lgqm.huijiwiki.com/wiki/%E9%A6%96%E9%A1%B5) made by fans of the work, it’s all in Chinese unfortunately. If you’re interested, you can head over there and snoop around. Now, if it isn’t obvious already, this is of course a translation done by a fan without sanction nor licence from the original author or publisher. The writings herein are an unofficial rendering of the original work (for which a translation has not yet been licensed). 

Finally, I also want to warn the reader that this novel may not be palatable for Western audiences: the story contains overt themes of nationalism, sexual and racial discrimination, sexual exploitation, slavery, an extremely authoritarian government, and so on. This is not a story concerned about Western ideals of how society ought to work: it is much closer in spirit to the wish-fulfilment genre that is so prevalent in the Chinese online literature world. Supposedly, the overriding priority of the novel is realism; yet, at times, the dreams and outlooks of our protagonists seem far-from-ordinary, and rational justification for their decisions is hard to find. While the novel’s techno-nationalism is hidden behind this veil of pragmatic realpolitik, when we peel back the thin veneer, it is difficult to say if the new world that the protagonists have built is better or worse. What then is the difference between ‘manifest destiny’ and ‘to build a new world?’ I will leave it up to the reader to make such moral judgments. My goal in this translation is not to personally argue for or against any particular set of opinions, and I try not to be biased in any shape or form. Personally, I just think that it’s worthwhile to compare Boaster’s _Lingao_ with Flint’s _Ring of Fire_, and especially highlight the remarkably dissimilar narratives starting from remarkably similar premises. 

More broadly, I hope that my work is a small window for us in the West to see more of the East. To allow us to appreciate more of the story-telling heritage that all humanity, quite paradoxically, enjoys in common, but yet is simultaneously so divided. For, I think that all stories are worth telling. Let me finish my rambling with a concise epigraph, courtesy of Eric Flint.

_Tremble, lords of Germany_. _A new breed has come into the world_.

-JWD, 2024
